docs/reference/api/Configuration/acceptHTTPTunnel.mdx, before:

---
title: "Configuration.acceptHTTPTunnel()"
api: Configuration.acceptHTTPTunnel()
---

## Description

Appends an **acceptHTTPTunnel** filter to the current pipeline layout.

An **acceptHTTPTunnel** filter implements [HTTP tunnel](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTTP_tunnel) on the server side. Its input and output are [Messages](/reference/api/Message) at the beginning and switch to [Data](/reference/api/Data) after the tunnel is established. Its sub-pipeline's input and output are _Data_ streams.

|          |             |               |          |                |
|---------:|:-----------:|:-------------:|:--------:|:--------------:|
|          | **Message** |               |          |                |
|          | **+ Data**  |               | **Data** |                |
| _Input_  | →           |               | →        |                |
|          |             | `acceptSOCKS` |          | `sub-pipeline` |
| _Output_ | ←           |               | ←        |                |
|          | **Message** |               | **Data** |                |
|          | **+ Data**  |               |          |                |

An **acceptHTTPTunnel** filter calls back a user handler for each input _Message_ (expected to be an HTTP request) and outputs the _Message_ returned as response. When the request is a [CONNECT](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/HTTP/Methods/CONNECT) request, a sub-pipeline will be created to establish an _HTTP tunnel_ and _Data_ streams after that initial request and response are sent back and forth between the **acceptHTTPTunnel** filter and the sub-pipeline.

## Syntax

``` js
pipy()
  .pipeline('example')
    .acceptHTTPTunnel(
      layout,
      request => getResponse(request)
    )
```

### Parameters

<Parameters/>

### Return value

<ReturnValue/>

## Example

``` js
pipy({
  _target: '',
})

.listen(8080)
  .demuxHTTP('req')

.pipeline('req')
  .acceptHTTPTunnel(
    'tunnel',
    msg => (
      _target = msg.head.path, // Extracts the target from the URI
      new Message('OK')
    )
  )

.pipeline('tunnel')
  .connect(
    () => _target
  )
```

## See Also

* [Configuration](/reference/api/Configuration)
* [connectHTTPTunnel()](/reference/api/Configuration/connectHTTPTunnel)

Commit message:

[filter] acceptHTTPTunnel() establishes the tunnel according to the response status

docs/reference/api/Configuration/acceptHTTPTunnel.mdx, after:

---
title: "Configuration.acceptHTTPTunnel()"
api: Configuration.acceptHTTPTunnel()
---

## Description

Appends an **acceptHTTPTunnel** filter to the current pipeline layout.

An **acceptHTTPTunnel** filter implements [HTTP tunnel](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTTP_tunnel) on the server side. Its input and output are [Messages](/reference/api/Message) at the beginning and switch to [Data](/reference/api/Data) after the tunnel is established. Its sub-pipeline's input and output are _Data_ streams.

|          |             |               |          |                |
|---------:|:-----------:|:-------------:|:--------:|:--------------:|
|          | **Message** |               |          |                |
|          | **+ Data**  |               | **Data** |                |
| _Input_  | →           |               | →        |                |
|          |             | `acceptSOCKS` |          | `sub-pipeline` |
| _Output_ | ←           |               | ←        |                |
|          | **Message** |               | **Data** |                |
|          | **+ Data**  |               |          |                |

An **acceptHTTPTunnel** filter calls back a user handler for the input _Message_ (expected to be an HTTP request) and outputs the _Message_ returned from the callback as response. When the response status code is 1xx or 2xx, a sub-pipeline will be created to establish an _HTTP tunnel_ and _Data_ events after that initial request and response are sent back and forth between the **acceptHTTPTunnel** filter and the sub-pipeline.

Besides _HTTP tunnel_, this filter can also be used for a tunneling-like protocol upgraded from a regular HTTP session, such as [WebSocket](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/WebSocket).

## Syntax

``` js
pipy()
  .pipeline('example')
    .acceptHTTPTunnel(
      layout,
      request => getResponse(request)
    )
```

### Parameters

<Parameters/>

### Return value

<ReturnValue/>

## Example

``` js
pipy({
  _target: '',
})

.listen(8080)
  .demuxHTTP('req')

.pipeline('req')
  .acceptHTTPTunnel(
    'tunnel',
    msg => (
      _target = msg.head.path, // Extracts the target from the URI
      new Message('OK')
    )
  )

.pipeline('tunnel')
  .connect(
    () => _target
  )
```

## See Also

* [Configuration](/reference/api/Configuration)
* [connectHTTPTunnel()](/reference/api/Configuration/connectHTTPTunnel)
