docs/reference/api/Configuration/connectTLS.mdx, before:

---
title: "Configuration.connectTLS()"
api: Configuration.connectTLS()
---

## Description

Appends a **connectTLS** filter to the current pipeline layout.

A **connectTLS** filter implements [TLS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transport_Layer_Security) protocol on the client side. Its input and output are [Data](/reference/api/Data) streams. Its sub-pipeline's input and output are also _Data_ streams (usually TCP streams).

|          |          |              |          |                |
|---------:|:--------:|:------------:|:--------:|:--------------:|
|          | **Data** |              | **Data** |                |
| _Input_  | →        |              | →        |                |
|          |          | `connectTLS` |          | `sub-pipeline` |
| _Output_ | ←        |              | ←        |                |
|          | **Data** |              | **Data** |                |

A **connectTLS** filter works like this:

- First, it initiates and carries out a TLS handshake with the server via a newly created sub-pipeline
- After the handshake is done, it goes on reading and encrypting the _Data_ stream from the filter's input and pumping the encrypted _Data_ stream to the sub-pipeline
- Output from that sub-pipeline is supposed to be the encrypted _Data_ stream received from the server and will be decrypted and sent out via the filter's output

### SNI

As the client side in a TLS communication, you can specify the [SNI](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Server_Name_Indication) server name by option _sni_ in the _options_ parameter. It can be a string or a function that returns a string.

### ALPN

[ALPN](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Application-Layer_Protocol_Negotiation) is supported by specifying protocols the client side prefers in _alpn_ option of the _options_ parameter. It can be a string or an array of strings.

### Mutual TLS

To enable mTLS, give an array of [crypto.Certificate](/reference/api/crypto/Certificate) objects to the _trusted_ option in the _options_ parameter. Only servers holding a certificate presented in that list are allowed in the handshake process.

The _certificate_ option in the _options_ parameter is also required on the client side if mutual TLS is being used. It can be an object with the following properties, or a function that returns that object:

- _cert_ - a [crypto.Certificate](/reference/api/crypto/Certificate) or [crypto.CertificateChain](/reference/api/crypto/CertificateChain)
- _key_ - a [crypto.PrivateKey](/reference/api/crypto/PrivateKey)

## Syntax

``` js
pipy()
  .pipeline('example')
    .connectTLS(layout)

pipy()
  .pipeline('example')
    .connectTLS(
      layout,
      {
        certificate: {
          cert, // crypto.Certificate or crypto.CertificateChain
          key,  // crypto.PrivateKey
        },
        trusted: [
          ...trustedCerts // array of crypto.Certificate
        ],
        sni: () => getServerName(),
        alpn,
      }
    )
```

### Parameters

<Parameters/>

### Return value

<ReturnValue/>

## Example

``` js
pipy()

// Start a one-shot task
.task()
  // Throw together a simple HTTP request: GET /hello
  .replaceMessage(
    new Message(
      {
        method: 'GET',
        path: '/hello',
        headers: {
          host: 'example.com:443',
        },
      }
    )
  )
  .connectTLS('outbound-connection')
  .print() // Print out the response as plain text

.pipeline('outbound-connection')
  .connect('example.com:443') // Connect to the target with TCP
```

## See Also

* [Configuration](/reference/api/Configuration)
* [acceptTLS()](/reference/api/Configuration/acceptTLS)
* [crypto.Certificate](/reference/api/crypto/Certificate)
* [crypto.CertificateChain](/reference/api/crypto/CertificateChain)
* [crypto.PrivateKey](/reference/api/crypto/PrivateKey)

Commit message:

[filter] Add handshake callback to TLS codec to tell the chosen protocol

docs/reference/api/Configuration/connectTLS.mdx, after:

---
title: "Configuration.connectTLS()"
api: Configuration.connectTLS()
---

## Description

Appends a **connectTLS** filter to the current pipeline layout.

A **connectTLS** filter implements [TLS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transport_Layer_Security) protocol on the client side. Its input and output are [Data](/reference/api/Data) streams. Its sub-pipeline's input and output are also _Data_ streams (usually TCP streams).

|          |          |              |          |                |
|---------:|:--------:|:------------:|:--------:|:--------------:|
|          | **Data** |              | **Data** |                |
| _Input_  | →        |              | →        |                |
|          |          | `connectTLS` |          | `sub-pipeline` |
| _Output_ | ←        |              | ←        |                |
|          | **Data** |              | **Data** |                |

A **connectTLS** filter works like this:

- First, it initiates and carries out a TLS handshake with the server via a newly created sub-pipeline
- After the handshake is done, it goes on reading and encrypting the _Data_ stream from the filter's input and pumping the encrypted _Data_ stream to the sub-pipeline
- Output from that sub-pipeline is supposed to be the encrypted _Data_ stream received from the server and will be decrypted and sent out via the filter's output

### SNI

As the client side in a TLS communication, you can specify the [SNI](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Server_Name_Indication) server name by option _sni_ in the _options_ parameter. It can be a string or a function that returns a string.

### ALPN

[ALPN](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Application-Layer_Protocol_Negotiation) is supported by specifying protocols the client side prefers in _alpn_ option of the _options_ parameter. It can be a string or an array of strings.

### Mutual TLS

To enable mTLS, give an array of [crypto.Certificate](/reference/api/crypto/Certificate) objects to the _trusted_ option in the _options_ parameter. Only servers holding a certificate presented in that list are allowed in the handshake process.

The _certificate_ option in the _options_ parameter is also required on the client side if mutual TLS is being used. It can be an object with the following properties, or a function that returns that object:

- _cert_ - a [crypto.Certificate](/reference/api/crypto/Certificate) or [crypto.CertificateChain](/reference/api/crypto/CertificateChain)
- _key_ - a [crypto.PrivateKey](/reference/api/crypto/PrivateKey)

### Handshake callback

A handshake callback function can be given to the _handshake_ option in the _options_ parameter. This function will be called after handshake completes. The protocol that is chosen after protocol negotiation is passed as a string parameter to the callback.

## Syntax

``` js
pipy()
  .pipeline('example')
    .connectTLS(layout)

pipy()
  .pipeline('example')
    .connectTLS(
      layout,
      {
        certificate: {
          cert, // crypto.Certificate or crypto.CertificateChain
          key,  // crypto.PrivateKey
        },
        trusted: [
          ...trustedCerts // array of crypto.Certificate
        ],
        sni: () => getServerName(),
        alpn: [...requestedProtocols],
        handshake: (chosenProtocol) => onHandshakeComplete(chosenProtocol),
      }
    )
```

### Parameters

<Parameters/>

### Return value

<ReturnValue/>

## Example

``` js
pipy()

// Start a one-shot task
.task()
  // Throw together a simple HTTP request: GET /hello
  .replaceMessage(
    new Message(
      {
        method: 'GET',
        path: '/hello',
        headers: {
          host: 'example.com:443',
        },
      }
    )
  )
  .connectTLS('outbound-connection')
  .print() // Print out the response as plain text

.pipeline('outbound-connection')
  .connect('example.com:443') // Connect to the target with TCP
```

## See Also

* [Configuration](/reference/api/Configuration)
* [acceptTLS()](/reference/api/Configuration/acceptTLS)
* [crypto.Certificate](/reference/api/crypto/Certificate)
* [crypto.CertificateChain](/reference/api/crypto/CertificateChain)
* [crypto.PrivateKey](/reference/api/crypto/PrivateKey)
