docs/reference/api/Configuration/decodeMQTT.mdx, before:

---
title: "Configuration.decodeMQTT()"
api: Configuration.decodeMQTT()
---

## Description

Appends a **decodeMQTT** filter to the current pipeline layout.

A **decodeMQTT** filter decodes [MQTT](https://mqtt.org/) packets in its input [Data](/reference/api/Data) and outputs [Messages](/reference/api/Message) after decoding. Its input is a _Data_ stream and its output is a _Message_ stream.

|              |             |
|:------------:|:-----------:|
| _Input_      |             |
| ↓            | **Data**    |
| `decodeMQTT` |             |
| ↓            | **Message** |
| _Output_     |             |

The _Messages_ after decoding will have these contents:

* _head_
  - _type_ - Type of the packet such as _"SUBSCRIBE"_ and _"PUBLISH"_
  - _qos_ - PUBLISH Quality of Service
  - _dup_ - Duplicate delivery of a PUBLISH packet
  - _retain_ - PUBLISH retained message flag
  - Other properties defined in the [specification](https://docs.oasis-open.org/mqtt/mqtt/v5.0/os/mqtt-v5.0-os.html#_Toc3901027)
* _body_ - Payload of a PUBLISH packet

## Syntax

``` js
pipy()
  .pipeline('example')
    .decodeMQTT()
```

### Return value

<ReturnValue/>

## See Also

* [Configuration](/reference/api/Configuration)
* [encodeMQTT()](/reference/api/Configuration/encodeMQTT)

Commit message:

[filter] Add protocolLevel option to decodeMQTT

docs/reference/api/Configuration/decodeMQTT.mdx, after:

---
title: "Configuration.decodeMQTT()"
api: Configuration.decodeMQTT()
---

## Description

Appends a **decodeMQTT** filter to the current pipeline layout.

A **decodeMQTT** filter decodes [MQTT](https://mqtt.org/) packets in its input [Data](/reference/api/Data) and outputs [Messages](/reference/api/Message) after decoding. Its input is a _Data_ stream and its output is a _Message_ stream.

|              |             |
|:------------:|:-----------:|
| _Input_      |             |
| ↓            | **Data**    |
| `decodeMQTT` |             |
| ↓            | **Message** |
| _Output_     |             |

The _Messages_ after decoding will have these contents:

* _head_
  - _type_ - Type of the packet such as _"SUBSCRIBE"_ and _"PUBLISH"_
  - _qos_ - PUBLISH Quality of Service
  - _dup_ - Duplicate delivery of a PUBLISH packet
  - _retain_ - PUBLISH retained message flag
  - Other properties defined in the [specification](https://docs.oasis-open.org/mqtt/mqtt/v5.0/os/mqtt-v5.0-os.html#_Toc3901027)
* _body_ - Payload of a PUBLISH packet

### Protocol level

By default, the decoder works in protocol level 4 (MQTT v3.1.1). When decoding MQTT packets sending to the broker, the first packet would be a CONNECT packet, which includes the _protocol level_ being used. The decoder can then switch to the correct protocol level.

However, when decoding packets returning from the broker, there's no such information in the packets themselves, so you need to provide the correct protocol level by option _protocolLevel_ in the _options_ parameter. It can be a number, or a function that returns a number.

The following protocol levels are supported:

* When protocolLevel is 4, works in MQTT v3.1.1
* When protocolLevel is 5, works in MQTT v5.0

## Syntax

``` js
pipy()
  .pipeline('example')
    .decodeMQTT()

pipy()
  .pipeline('example')
    .decodeMQTT({
      protocolLevel
    })
```

### Parameters

<Parameters/>

### Return value

<ReturnValue/>

## See Also

* [Configuration](/reference/api/Configuration)
* [encodeMQTT()](/reference/api/Configuration/encodeMQTT)
