docs/reference/api/Configuration/export.mdx, before:

---
title: Configuration.export()
api: Configuration.export
---

## Description

<Summary/>

In PipyJS, global variables can be defined in two ways. One way is by [pipy()](/reference/api/pipy), where the variables are only visible to script in the same file. The other way is by using `Configuration.export()`, where the variables are not only visible to the file where they are defined from, but also to other files where they are _imported_ with [Configuration.import()](/reference/api/Configuration/import).

Exported variables must be under a _namespace_, which is referred to while being imported in other modules. Since exporting a variable also defines it like with [pipy()](/reference/api/pipy), you also give it an initial value.

Every call to `Configuration.export()` exports multiple variables to one namespace, with pairs of variable names and initial values given in an object as the second argument to the method. You can call `Configuration.export()` more than once to export to multiple namespaces.

> As a convention, exported variables are suggested to have two underscores as its prefix, such as `__targetFound`.

## Syntax

``` js
pipy()
  .export(namespace, {
    contextVariable1: initialValue1,
    contextVariable2: initialValue2,
    contextVariable3: initialValue3,
    // ...
  })
```

### Parameters

<Parameters/>

## Example

``` js
pipy({
  _startupTime: Date.now(), // a global variable only visible to this file
})

.export(
  'routing-stuff',
  {
    // global variables visible to other modules under namespace 'routing-stuff'
    __service: undefined,
    __target: undefined,
  }
)
```

## See Also

* [Configuration](/reference/api/Configuration)
* [import()](/reference/api/Configuration/import)
* [pipy()](/reference/api/pipy)

Commit message:

[doc] More reference doc pages revised for Configuration API

docs/reference/api/Configuration/export.mdx, after:

---
title: Configuration.export()
api: Configuration.export
---

## Description

<Summary/>

In PipyJS, context variables can be defined in two ways. One way is by [pipy()](/reference/api/pipy), where the context variables are only visible to script in the same file. The other way is by using `export()`, where the context variables are not only visible to the file where they are defined, but also to other files that _imported_ them with [import()](/reference/api/Configuration/import).

Exported context variables must be under a _namespace_, which is referred to while being imported in other modules. Since exporting a context variable also defines it like with [pipy()](/reference/api/pipy), you also give it an initial value.

Every call to `export()` exports multiple context variables to one namespace, with pairs of variable names and initial values given in an object as the second argument to the method. You can call `export()` more than once to export to multiple namespaces.

> As a convention, exported variables are recommended to have two underscores as prefix, such as `__targetFound`.

## Syntax

``` js
pipy()
  .export(namespace, {
    contextVariable1: initialValue1,
    contextVariable2: initialValue2,
    contextVariable3: initialValue3,
    // ...
  })
```

## Parameters

<Parameters/>

## Example

``` js
pipy({
  _startupTime: Date.now(), // a global variable only visible to this file
})

.export(
  'routing-stuff',
  {
    // global variables visible to other modules under namespace 'routing-stuff'
    __service: undefined,
    __target: undefined,
  }
)
```

## See Also

* [Configuration](/reference/api/Configuration)
* [import()](/reference/api/Configuration/import)
* [pipy()](/reference/api/pipy)
