docs/reference/api/Configuration/import.mdx, before:

---
title: Configuration.import()
api: Configuration.import
---

## Description

<Summary/>

In PipyJS, global variables can be defined in two ways. One way is by [pipy()](/reference/api/pipy), where the variables are only visible to script in the same file. The other way is by using [Configuration.export()](/reference/api/Configuration/export), where the variables are not only visible to the file where they are defined, but also to other files where they are _imported_ with `Configuration.import()`.

The module that imports a variable from another module doesn't need to know what file that variable is defined in. Instead, it refers to its name and its _namespace_ under which the variable is defined. The one and only argument to `Configuration.import()` is an object of key-value pairs, where keys are the variable names and values are the namespaces where each variable can be found.

After a variable is imported to a module, it can be used just like a global variable that would have been defined in the current file by [pipy()](/reference/api/pipy). Any changes to that variable are also visible to the original file that _exports_ it, as well as other modules that have _imported_ it.

> As a convention, exported variables are suggested to have two underscores as its prefix, such as `__targetFound`.

## Syntax

``` js
pipy()
  .import({
    contextVariable1: namespace1,
    contextVariable2: namespace2,
    contextVariable3: namespace3,
    // ...
  })
```

### Parameters

<Parameters/>

## Example

``` js
pipy()

.import({
  // global variables defined in other modules under namespace 'routing-stuff'
  __service: 'routing-stuff',
  __target: 'routing-stuff',
})
```

## See Also

* [Configuration](/reference/api/Configuration)
* [export()](/reference/api/Configuration/export)
* [pipy()](/reference/api/pipy)

Commit message:

[doc] More reference doc pages revised for Configuration API

docs/reference/api/Configuration/import.mdx, after:

---
title: Configuration.import()
api: Configuration.import
---

## Description

<Summary/>

In PipyJS, [context variables](/intro/concepts/context) can be defined in two ways. One way is by [pipy()](/reference/api/pipy), where the context variables are only visible to script in the same file. The other way is by using [export()](/reference/api/Configuration/export), where the context variables are not only visible to the file where they are defined, but also to other files that _imported_ them with `import()`.

The module that imports a context variable from another module doesn't need to know what file that variable is defined in. Instead, the module can refer to the variable by its name plus the _namespace_ under which the variable is exported. The one and only argument to `import()` is an object of key-value pairs, where keys are the variable names and values are the namespaces where each variable can be found.

After a context variable is imported to a module, it can be used as if it'd been defined in the current file by [pipy()](/reference/api/pipy). Any changes to that variable are also visible to the original file that _exports_ it, as well as other modules that have _imported_ it.

> As a convention, exported variables are recommended to have two underscores as prefix, such as `__targetFound`.

## Syntax

``` js
pipy()
  .import({
    contextVariable1: namespace1,
    contextVariable2: namespace2,
    contextVariable3: namespace3,
    // ...
  })
```

## Parameters

<Parameters/>

## Example

``` js
pipy()

.import({
  // global variables defined in other modules under namespace 'routing-stuff'
  __service: 'routing-stuff',
  __target: 'routing-stuff',
})
```

## See Also

* [Configuration](/reference/api/Configuration)
* [export()](/reference/api/Configuration/export)
* [pipy()](/reference/api/pipy)
