docs/reference/api/Configuration/listen.mdx, before:

---
title: "Configuration.listen()"
api: Configuration.listen()
---

## Description

Creates a pipeline layout to handle incoming TCP connections on a specified port.

Ports can be specified with just numbers when binding to `0.0.0.0`, or strings in form of `<IP>:<port>` when binding to arbitrary IP addresses. Note that, to bind to an IPv6 address, surround the address within a pair of brackets so that the colon before the port number can be identified correctly, e.g. `[::]:8080`.

After calling this method on a _Configuration_, the newly created pipeline layout would become current. Any _filter-creating_ methods called after this point would append filters to that layout, until another _pipeline-layout-creating_ method is called.

### Options

There are a few options that a listening port supports.

#### Option: maxConnections

Limit the maximum number of concurrent connections. Defaults to no limit.

#### Option: readTimeout

Timeout duration for reading, in seconds. Can be a string with one of the time unit suffixes such as `s`, `m` or `h`. Defaults to no timeout (waiting forever).

#### Option: readTimeout

Timeout duration for writing, in seconds. Can be a string with one of the time unit suffixes such as `s`, `m` or `h`. Defaults to no timeout (waiting forever).

## Syntax

``` js
pipy().listen(port)
pipy().listen(port, { ...options })
```

### Parameters

<Parameters/>

### Return value

<ReturnValue/>

## Example

``` js
pipy()

.listen(8080) // Start listening on port 8080
  .dump()     // Add filter, dump to stdout whatever is received from the port
  .dummy()    // Add filter, do not send anything back to the client
```

## See Also

* [Configuration](/reference/api/Configuration)
* [read()](/reference/api/Configuration/read)
* [task()](/reference/api/Configuration/task)
* [pipeline()](/reference/api/Configuration/pipeline)

Commit message:

[core] Support listening in transparent mode

docs/reference/api/Configuration/listen.mdx, after:

---
title: "Configuration.listen()"
api: Configuration.listen()
---

## Description

Creates a pipeline layout to handle incoming TCP connections on a specified port.

Ports can be specified with just numbers when binding to `0.0.0.0`, or strings in form of `<IP>:<port>` when binding to arbitrary IP addresses. Note that, to bind to an IPv6 address, surround the address within a pair of brackets so that the colon before the port number can be identified correctly, e.g. `[::]:8080`.

After calling this method on a _Configuration_, the newly created pipeline layout would become current. Any _filter-creating_ methods called after this point would append filters to that layout, until another _pipeline-layout-creating_ method is called.

### Options

There are a few options that a listening port supports.

#### Option: maxConnections

Limit the maximum number of concurrent connections. Defaults to no limit.

#### Option: readTimeout

Timeout duration for reading, in seconds. Can be a string with one of the time unit suffixes such as `s`, `m` or `h`. Defaults to no timeout (waiting forever).

#### Option: readTimeout

Timeout duration for writing, in seconds. Can be a string with one of the time unit suffixes such as `s`, `m` or `h`. Defaults to no timeout (waiting forever).

#### Option: transparent

Set to _true_ to enable [transparent proxy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Proxy_server#Transparent_proxy) mode, where the original destination address and port can be found through `__inbound.destinationAddress` and `__inbound.destinationPort` properties. This is only available on Linux by using NAT or TPROXY.

## Syntax

``` js
pipy().listen(port)
pipy().listen(port, { ...options })
```

### Parameters

<Parameters/>

### Return value

<ReturnValue/>

## Example

``` js
pipy()

.listen(8080) // Start listening on port 8080
  .dump()     // Add filter, dump to stdout whatever is received from the port
  .dummy()    // Add filter, do not send anything back to the client
```

## See Also

* [Configuration](/reference/api/Configuration)
* [read()](/reference/api/Configuration/read)
* [task()](/reference/api/Configuration/task)
* [pipeline()](/reference/api/Configuration/pipeline)
