docs/reference/api/Configuration/merge.mdx, before:

---
title: "Configuration.merge()"
api: Configuration.merge()
---

Appends a **merge** filter to the current pipeline layout.

A **merge** filter queues up input [Messages](/reference/api/Message) into a shared sub-pipeline. Its input and output are _Messages_. Its sub-pipelines's input is also _Messages_ while their output is simply discarded.

|          |             |         |             |                |           |            |
|---------:|:-----------:|:-------:|:-----------:|:--------------:|:---------:|:-----------|
|          | **Message** |         |             |                |           |            |
| _Input_  | →           |         | **Message** |                | **Event** |            |
|          |             | `merge` | →           | `sub-pipeline` | →         | _Discared_ |
| _Output_ | ←           |         |             |                |           |            |
|          | **Message** |         |             |                |           |            |

A **merge** filter works like this:

- At the input to a **merge** filter, _Messages_ are sent to a sub-pipeline that is shared by a group of **merge** filters
- At the input to the shared sub-pipeline, all streams from the group of **merge** filters are queued up into one single _Message_ stream
- Whatever is output from the shared sub-pipeline is discared
- At the output from the **merge** filter, out come the same _Mesasges_ from its input

A group of **merge** filters can have one shared sub-pipeline, in which many input _Messages_ are queued up.

|                    |    |         |    |                |
|-------------------:|:--:|:-------:|:--:|:---------------|
| `main pipeline #1` | ←→ | `merge` |    |                |
| `main pipeline #2` | ←→ | `merge` | ←→ | `sub-pipeline` |
| `main pipeline #N` | ←→ | `merge` |    |                |

### Stream Grouping

You can control the grouping of **merge** filters by using the _group_ parameter. It can be a value of any type or a function that returns a dynamic value of any type. Filters in the same _group_ will share the same sub-pipeline.

> Grouping only happens among filters coming from the same place in the same pipeline layout. Two filters from different pipeline layouts or different places in the same pipeline layout will never share the same sub-pipeline, even when given the same _group_ parameter.

### Sub-pipeline lifecycle

Since the sub-pipeline is shared by multiple streams coming from a group of **merge** filters, it won't be closed until the last stream ends in the group. After all streams in the group are closed, the sub-pipeline will wait for 10 seconds to ensure no more new streams are coming. You can change this waiting time by the _idleTime_ option in the _options_ parameter.

> When the _group_ parameter is an object, it will be a _weak ref_ as the key in a [WeakMap](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Keyed_collections#weakmap_object). When the object is dead, so is the sub-pipeline, regardless of the _idleTime_ option. The stream in that dead sub-pipeline could be closed earlier or later than the idle time, but it will never be reused again.

## Syntax

``` js
pipy()
  .pipeline('example')
    .merge(layout, group)

pipy()
  .pipeline('example')
    .merge(layout, () => whichGroup())

pipy()
  .pipeline('example')
    .merge(
      layout,
      group,
      {
        maxIdle,
      }
    )
```

### Parameters

<Parameters/>

### Return value

<ReturnValue/>

## See Also

* [Configuration](/reference/api/Configuration)
* [demux()](/reference/api/Configuration/demux)
* [demuxHTTP()](/reference/api/Configuration/demuxHTTP)
* [mux()](/reference/api/Configuration/mux)
* [muxHTTP()](/reference/api/Configuration/muxHTTP)
* [serveHTTP()](/reference/api/Configuration/serveHTTP)

Commit message:

[filter] Supports time string with a unit suffix in the maxIdle options of muxers

docs/reference/api/Configuration/merge.mdx, after:

---
title: "Configuration.merge()"
api: Configuration.merge()
---

## Description

Appends a **merge** filter to the current pipeline layout.

A **merge** filter queues up input [Messages](/reference/api/Message) into a shared sub-pipeline. Its input and output are _Messages_. Its sub-pipelines's input is also _Messages_ while their output is simply discarded.

|          |             |         |             |                |           |            |
|---------:|:-----------:|:-------:|:-----------:|:--------------:|:---------:|:-----------|
|          | **Message** |         |             |                |           |            |
| _Input_  | →           |         | **Message** |                | **Event** |            |
|          |             | `merge` | →           | `sub-pipeline` | →         | _Discared_ |
| _Output_ | ←           |         |             |                |           |            |
|          | **Message** |         |             |                |           |            |

A **merge** filter works like this:

- At the input to a **merge** filter, _Messages_ are sent to a sub-pipeline that is shared by a group of **merge** filters
- At the input to the shared sub-pipeline, all streams from the group of **merge** filters are queued up into one single _Message_ stream
- Whatever is output from the shared sub-pipeline is discared
- At the output from the **merge** filter, out come the same _Mesasges_ from its input

A group of **merge** filters can have one shared sub-pipeline, in which many input _Messages_ are queued up.

|                    |    |         |    |                |
|-------------------:|:--:|:-------:|:--:|:---------------|
| `main pipeline #1` | ←→ | `merge` |    |                |
| `main pipeline #2` | ←→ | `merge` | ←→ | `sub-pipeline` |
| `main pipeline #N` | ←→ | `merge` |    |                |

### Stream Grouping

You can control the grouping of **merge** filters by using the _group_ parameter. It can be a value of any type or a function that returns a dynamic value of any type. Filters in the same _group_ will share the same sub-pipeline.

> Grouping only happens among filters coming from the same place in the same pipeline layout. Two filters from different pipeline layouts or different places in the same pipeline layout will never share the same sub-pipeline, even when given the same _group_ parameter.

### Sub-pipeline lifecycle

Since the sub-pipeline is shared by multiple streams coming from a group of **merge** filters, it won't be closed until the last stream ends in the group. After all streams in the group are closed, the sub-pipeline will wait for 10 seconds to ensure no more new streams are coming. You can change this waiting time by the _maxIdle_ option in the _options_ parameter. It can be either a number in seconds or a string with a unit suffix such as `'s'`, `'m'`, `'h'`, `'d'`.

> When the _group_ parameter is an object, it will be a _weak ref_ as the key in a [WeakMap](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Keyed_collections#weakmap_object). When the object is dead, so is the sub-pipeline, regardless of the _idleTime_ option. The stream in that dead sub-pipeline could be closed earlier or later than the idle time, but it will never be reused again.

## Syntax

``` js
pipy()
  .pipeline('example')
    .merge(layout, group)

pipy()
  .pipeline('example')
    .merge(layout, () => whichGroup())

pipy()
  .pipeline('example')
    .merge(
      layout,
      group,
      {
        maxIdle,
      }
    )
```

### Parameters

<Parameters/>

### Return value

<ReturnValue/>

## See Also

* [Configuration](/reference/api/Configuration)
* [demux()](/reference/api/Configuration/demux)
* [demuxHTTP()](/reference/api/Configuration/demuxHTTP)
* [mux()](/reference/api/Configuration/mux)
* [muxHTTP()](/reference/api/Configuration/muxHTTP)
* [serveHTTP()](/reference/api/Configuration/serveHTTP)
