docs/reference/api/Configuration/pack.mdx, before:

---
title: "Configuration.pack()"
api: Configuration.pack()
---

## Description

Appends a **pack** filter to the current pipeline layout.

A **pack** filter concatenates [Data](/reference/api/Data) from multiple input [Message](/reference/api/Message) bodies into one and outputs the combined _Messages_. Its input and output are both _Message_ streams.

|          |             |
|:--------:|:-----------:|
| _Input_  |             |
| ↓        | **Message** |
| `pack`   |             |
| ↓        | **Message** |
| _Output_ |             |

The number of input _Messages_ to combine into one is given by the _batchSize_ parameter, which defaults to 1 if not presented.

You can also let the filter output a combined _Message_ after a certain amount of time even when the input _Messages_ haven't reached to _batchSize_ yet. This is done by the _timeout_ option in the _options_ parameter, which can be a number in seconds, or a string with a time unit suffix such as `'s'`, `'m'`, `'h'` or `'d'`.

### Defragmentation

A [Data](/reference/api/Data) object stores its bytes in an array of _4KB chunks_. After a series of _Data_ splitting and joining operations by codecs and scripting, the chunks stored in _Data_ will be fragmented and have unused spaces in them. The **pack** filter has a side-effect to _defragment_ the chunks to save memory.

The degree of defragmentation can be controlled by the _vacancy_ option in the _options_ parameter. It tells the filter how much vacant space is allowed in every chunk, ranging from 0 where no vacancy should be kept, to 1 where no defragmentation is done. The default is 0.5, which means when a chunk has over half (2KB) space unused, it should be merged with its neighboring chunks.

Defragmentation does not change your code logic, it only saves memory consumption at the cost of extra memory move operations.

## Syntax

``` js
pipy()
  .pipeline('example')
    .pack()

pipy()
  .pipeline('example')
    .pack(batchSize)

pipy()
  .pipeline('example')
    .pack(
      batchSize,
      {
        timeout,
        vacancy,
      }
    )
```

### Parameters

<Parameters/>

### Return value

<ReturnValue/>

## See Also

* [Configuration](/reference/api/Configuration)
* [split()](/reference/api/Configuration/split)

Commit message:

[filter] Add interval option to pack()

docs/reference/api/Configuration/pack.mdx, after:

---
title: "Configuration.pack()"
api: Configuration.pack()
---

## Description

Appends a **pack** filter to the current pipeline layout.

A **pack** filter concatenates [Data](/reference/api/Data) from multiple input [Message](/reference/api/Message) bodies into one and outputs the combined _Messages_. Its input and output are both _Message_ streams.

|          |             |
|:--------:|:-----------:|
| _Input_  |             |
| ↓        | **Message** |
| `pack`   |             |
| ↓        | **Message** |
| _Output_ |             |

The number of input _Messages_ to combine into one is given by the _batchSize_ parameter, which defaults to 1 if not presented.

You can set the maximum time interval between two consecutive batches coming out of a **pack** filter by the _interval_ option in the _options_ parameter. When this interval is greater than 0, a combined _Message_, if any, is guaranteed to be produced after every that amount of time, whether the _batchSize_ is reached or not.

You can also let the filter produce a combined _Message_ after a certain amount of time when no _Messages_ are coming through its input. This is done by the _timeout_ option in the _options_ parameter.

Both _interval_ and _timeout_ can be a number in seconds, or a string with a time unit suffix such as `'s'`, `'m'`, `'h'` or `'d'`.

### Defragmentation

A [Data](/reference/api/Data) object stores its bytes in an array of _4KB chunks_. After a series of _Data_ splitting and joining operations by codecs and scripting, the chunks stored in _Data_ will be fragmented and have unused spaces in them. The **pack** filter has a side-effect to _defragment_ the chunks to save memory.

The degree of defragmentation can be controlled by the _vacancy_ option in the _options_ parameter. It tells the filter how much vacant space is allowed in every chunk, ranging from 0 where no vacancy should be kept, to 1 where no defragmentation is done. The default is 0.5, which means when a chunk has over half (2KB) space unused, it should be merged with its neighboring chunks.

Defragmentation does not change your code logic, it only saves memory consumption at the cost of extra memory move operations.

## Syntax

``` js
pipy()
  .pipeline('example')
    .pack()

pipy()
  .pipeline('example')
    .pack(batchSize)

pipy()
  .pipeline('example')
    .pack(
      batchSize,
      {
        vacancy,
        timeout,
        interval,
      }
    )
```

### Parameters

<Parameters/>

### Return value

<ReturnValue/>

## See Also

* [Configuration](/reference/api/Configuration)
* [split()](/reference/api/Configuration/split)
