docs/reference/api/Configuration/wait.mdx, before:

---
title: "Configuration.wait()"
api: Configuration.wait()
---

## Description

Appends a **wait** filter to the current pipeline layout.

A **wait** filter blocks all input events up until a condition is met. Its input and output can be any types of events.

|          |           |
|:--------:|:---------:|
| _Input_  |           |
| ↓        | **Event** |
| `wait`   |           |
| ↓        | **Event** |
| _Output_ |           |

The condition to wait is given by the _condition_ parameter. It should be a function that returns a truthy value when the condition is met. The function will be called every time a relevant asynchronous event happens, such as having received a response from the upstream, etc.

This filter passes everything down unaltered. It doesn't change anything in the event stream. It only delays them.

## Syntax

``` js
pipy()
  .pipeline('example')
    .wait(
      () => shouldContinue()
    )
```

### Parameters

<Parameters/>

### Return value

<ReturnValue/>

## See Also

* [Configuration](/reference/api/Configuration)

Commit message:

[filter] Filter wait() now supports timeout option

docs/reference/api/Configuration/wait.mdx, after:

---
title: "Configuration.wait()"
api: Configuration.wait()
---

## Description

Appends a **wait** filter to the current pipeline layout.

A **wait** filter blocks all input events up until a condition is met. Its input and output can be any types of events.

|          |           |
|:--------:|:---------:|
| _Input_  |           |
| ↓        | **Event** |
| `wait`   |           |
| ↓        | **Event** |
| _Output_ |           |

The condition to wait is given by the _condition_ parameter. It should be a function that returns a truthy value when the condition is met. The function will be called every time a relevant asynchronous event happens, such as having received a response from the upstream, etc.

You can optionally set the maximum waiting time with _timeout_ option in the _options_ parameter. It can be a number in seconds or a string with one of the time unit suffixes including `s`, `m`, `h` and `d`.

This filter passes everything down unaltered. It doesn't change anything in the event stream. It only delays them.

## Syntax

``` js
pipy()
  .pipeline('example')
    .wait(
      () => shouldContinue()
    )

pipy()
  .pipeline('example')
    .wait(
      () => shouldContinue(),
      {
        timeout,
      }
    )
```

### Parameters

<Parameters/>

### Return value

<ReturnValue/>

## See Also

* [Configuration](/reference/api/Configuration)
