docs/reference/api/MessageStart/head.mdx, before:

---
title: MessageStart.head
api: MessageStart.head
---

## Description

<Summary/>

### For each protocol

The content of _head_ can vary depending on the protocol used by the message.

#### HTTP

The _head_ of an HTTP request message has these contents:

- _scheme_ - For HTTP/2 only, _"http"_ or _"https"_
- _authority_ - Equivalent to the _Host_ header in HTTP/2
- _protocol_ - Can be _"HTTP/1.0"_ or _"HTTP/1.1"_
- _method_ - HTTP method such as _"GET"_ and _"POST"_
- _path_ - Requested URI
- _headers_ - Header fields

The _head_ of an HTTP response message has these contents:

- _protocol_ - Can be _"HTTP/1.0"_ or _"HTTP/1.1"_
- _status_ - Response status code
- _statusText_ - Response reason phrase
- _headers_ - Header fields

#### Dubbo

The _head_ of a Dubbo message has these contents:

- _id_ - Request ID as a string
- _status_ - Status code
- _isRequest_ - Is it a request?
- _isTwoWay_ - Is it 2-way?
- _isEvent_ - Is it an event?

#### MQTT

The _head_ of an MQTT packet has these contents:

- _type_ - Type of the packet such as _"SUBSCRIBE"_ and _"PUBLISH"_
- _qos_ - PUBLISH Quality of Service
- _dup_ - Duplicate delivery of a PUBLISH packet
- _retain_ - PUBLISH retained message flag
- Other properties defined in the [specification](https://docs.oasis-open.org/mqtt/mqtt/v5.0/os/mqtt-v5.0-os.html#_Toc3901027)

## Syntax

``` js
messageStart.head
```

## Example

``` js
pipy()

  .listen(8080)
  .demuxHTTP().to(
    $=>$
    .handleMessageStart(
      msg => (
        console.log('Path:', msg.head.path, 'Headers:', msg.head.headers)
      )
    )
    .replaceMessage(
      new Message('Hello!')
    )
  )
```

## See Also

* [MessageStart](/reference/api/MessageStart)
* [Message](/reference/api/Message)

Commit message:

[doc] Add docs for Thrift codec filters

docs/reference/api/MessageStart/head.mdx, after:

---
title: MessageStart.head
api: MessageStart.head
---

## Description

<Summary/>

### For each protocol

The content of _head_ can vary depending on the protocol used by the message.

#### HTTP

The _head_ of an HTTP request message has the following content:

- _scheme_ - For HTTP/2 only, `"http"` or `"https"`
- _authority_ - Equivalent to the _Host_ header in HTTP/2
- _protocol_ - Can be `"HTTP/1.0"` or `"HTTP/1.1"`
- _method_ - HTTP method such as `"GET"` and `"POST"`
- _path_ - Requested URI
- _headers_ - Header fields

The _head_ of an HTTP response message has the following content:

- _protocol_ - Can be `"HTTP/1.0"` or `"HTTP/1.1"`
- _status_ - Response status code
- _statusText_ - Response reason phrase
- _headers_ - Header fields

#### MQTT

The _head_ of an MQTT packet has the following content:

- _type_ - Type of the packet such as `"SUBSCRIBE"` and `"PUBLISH"`
- _qos_ - PUBLISH Quality of Service
- _dup_ - Duplicate delivery of a PUBLISH packet
- _retain_ - PUBLISH retained message flag
- Other properties defined in the [specification](https://docs.oasis-open.org/mqtt/mqtt/v5.0/os/mqtt-v5.0-os.html#_Toc3901027)

#### Thrift

The _head_ of a Thrift message has the following content:

- _seqID_ - Sequence ID as a number
- _type_ - Type of the message: `"call"`, `"reply"`, `"exception"` or `"oneway"`
- _name_ - Name of the message
- _protocol_ - Encoding protocol: `"binary"` or `"compact"`

#### Dubbo

The _head_ of a Dubbo message has the following content:

- _id_ - Request ID as a string
- _status_ - Status code
- _isRequest_ - Is it a request?
- _isTwoWay_ - Is it 2-way?
- _isEvent_ - Is it an event?

## Syntax

``` js
messageStart.head
```

## Example

``` js
pipy()

  .listen(8080)
  .demuxHTTP().to(
    $=>$
    .handleMessageStart(
      msg => (
        console.log('Path:', msg.head.path, 'Headers:', msg.head.headers)
      )
    )
    .replaceMessage(
      new Message('Hello!')
    )
  )
```

## See Also

* [MessageStart](/reference/api/MessageStart)
* [Message](/reference/api/Message)
