docs/getting-started/quick-start.mdx, before:

---
title: "Quick Start"
---

For learning, development, or debugging purposes it's recommended to proceed with the local installation (either build from sources or download pre-built release for your specific OS) of Pipy as it comes with admin web console along with documentation and tutorials.

Once installed locally, running `pipy` without any arguments starts the admin console on port `6060` and it can be configured to listen on the different port via `--admin-port=` argument.

### Run via CLI

To start a Pipy proxy, run `pipy` with a PipyJS script file, for example, the script
in `tutorial/01-hello/hello.js` if you need a simple echo server that responds with the same message
body as in every incoming request:

```sh
$ pipy tutorial/01-hello/hello.js
```

Alternatively, while developing and debugging, one can start Pipy with a builtin web UI:

```sh
$ pipy tutorial/01-hello/hello.js --admin-port=6060
```

### Run via Docker

Annother approach is running with Docker. Note: this image has no builtin admin console.

```sh
docker run --rm -v $PWD/tutorial:/tutorial -p 8080:8080 flomesh/pipy-pjs:latest pipy /tutorial/01-hello/hello.js
```

### Show Command-Line Options

```sh
$ pipy --help
```

### List Builtin Filters and Their Parameters
Open the browser of your choice, point it to http://localhost:6060. You will now see the Admin UI where you can start exploring the documentation and playing around with the tutorial codebases. 
You'll find builtin filters and help information in `http://localhost:6060/docs/en/reference/Configuration`.

Commit message:

Updated quick-start with homebrew installation instructions

docs/getting-started/quick-start.mdx, after:

---
title: "Quick Start"
---

For learning, development, or debugging purposes it's recommended to proceed with the local installation (either build from sources or download pre-built release for your specific OS) of Pipy as it comes with admin web console along with documentation and tutorials.

Once installed locally, running `pipy` without any arguments starts the admin console on port `6060` and it can be configured to listen on the different port via `--admin-port=` argument.

To easily install Pipy on macOS, WSL you can use Homebrew.

```sh
$ brew update
$ brew tap flomesh-io/pipy
$ brew install pipy
```

### Upgrade

When a new Pipy version is released you can upgrade your system using:

```sh
$ brew update
$ brew upgrade pipy
```

### Run via CLI

To start a Pipy proxy, run `pipy` with a PipyJS script file, for example, the script
in `tutorial/01-hello/hello.js` if you need a simple echo server that responds with the same message
body as in every incoming request:

```sh
$ pipy tutorial/01-hello/hello.js
```

Alternatively, while developing and debugging, one can start Pipy with a builtin web UI:

```sh
$ pipy tutorial/01-hello/hello.js --admin-port=6060
```

### Run via Docker

Annother approach is running with Docker. Note: this image has no builtin admin console.

```sh
docker run --rm -v $PWD/tutorial:/tutorial -p 8080:8080 flomesh/pipy-pjs:latest pipy /tutorial/01-hello/hello.js
```

### Show Command-Line Options

```sh
$ pipy --help
```

### List Builtin Filters and Their Parameters
Open the browser of your choice, point it to http://localhost:6060. You will now see the Admin UI where you can start exploring the documentation and playing around with the tutorial codebases. 
You'll find builtin filters and help information in `http://localhost:6060/docs/en/reference/Configuration`.
