docs/quick-start.mdx, before:

---
title: "Quick Start"
---

For learning, development, or debugging purposes it's recommended to proceed with the local installation (either build from sources or download pre-built release for your specific OS) of Pipy as it comes with admin web console along with documentation and tutorials.

once installed locally, running `pipy` without any arguments starts the admin console on port `6060` and it can be configured to listen on the different port via `--admin-port=` argument.

### Build from Sources

Before building, the following prerequisites are required to be installed on your machine where you will be building Pipy:

* Clang 5.0+
* CMake 3.0+
* Node.js v12+ (only required if the builtin web UI is enabled)
* zlib

With the above, all installed, Pipy repository cloned, run the build script from Pipy root directory to start building:

```sh
$ git clone https://github.com/flomesh-io/pipy.git
$ cd pipy
$ ./build.sh
```

The final executable product will be located under `bin/`. Type `bin/pipy -h` for help information.

### Build a Docker Image

To build a Docker image, run the following commands:

```sh
$ cd pipy
$ docker build --squash --rm -t pipy .
```

> **Note:** For a smaller image, you might want to use `--squash` option. It is an experimental feature, so
you need to add `{ "experimental": true }` to `/etc/docker/daemon.json` and restart Docker daemon
before using it.
>
> For more information about Docker's `--squash` option, please refer to
[Docker Documentation](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/image_build/)


### Install with RPM

On Linux based system, you can install from the released rpm package. For example, to install pipy on RHEL7 you can invoke

```sh
$ yum -y install http://repo.flomesh.cn/pipy/pipy-latest.el7_pl.x86_64.rpm
```

### Run via CLI

To start a Pipy proxy, run `pipy` with a PipyJS script file, for example, the script
in `tutorial/01-hello/hello.js` if you need a simple echo server that responds with the same message
body as in every incoming request:

```sh
$ pipy tutorial/01-hello/hello.js
```

Alternatively, while developing and debugging, one can start Pipy with a builtin web UI:

```sh
$ pipy tutorial/01-hello/hello.js --admin-port=6060
```

### Show Command-Line Options

```sh
$ pipy --help
```

### List Builtin Filters and Their Parameters

```sh
$ pipy --list-filters
$ pipy --help-filters	
```

Commit message:

[docs] Update QuickStart, remove --list-filters description.

docs/quick-start.mdx, after:

---
title: "Quick Start"
---

For learning, development, or debugging purposes it's recommended to proceed with the local installation (either build from sources or download pre-built release for your specific OS) of Pipy as it comes with admin web console along with documentation and tutorials.

once installed locally, running `pipy` without any arguments starts the admin console on port `6060` and it can be configured to listen on the different port via `--admin-port=` argument.

### Build from Sources

Before building, the following prerequisites are required to be installed on your machine where you will be building Pipy:

* Clang 5.0+
* CMake 3.0+
* Node.js v12+ (only required if the builtin web UI is enabled)
* zlib

With the above, all installed, Pipy repository cloned, run the build script from Pipy root directory to start building:

```sh
$ git clone https://github.com/flomesh-io/pipy.git
$ cd pipy
$ ./build.sh
```

The final executable product will be located under `bin/`. Type `bin/pipy -h` for help information.

### Build a Docker Image

To build a Docker image, run the following commands:

```sh
$ cd pipy
$ docker build --squash --rm -t pipy .
```

> **Note:** For a smaller image, you might want to use `--squash` option. It is an experimental feature, so
you need to add `{ "experimental": true }` to `/etc/docker/daemon.json` and restart Docker daemon
before using it.
>
> For more information about Docker's `--squash` option, please refer to
[Docker Documentation](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/image_build/)


### Install with RPM

On Linux based system, you can install from the released rpm package. For example, to install pipy on RHEL7 you can invoke

```sh
$ yum -y install http://repo.flomesh.cn/pipy/pipy-latest.el7_pl.x86_64.rpm
```

### Run via CLI

To start a Pipy proxy, run `pipy` with a PipyJS script file, for example, the script
in `tutorial/01-hello/hello.js` if you need a simple echo server that responds with the same message
body as in every incoming request:

```sh
$ pipy tutorial/01-hello/hello.js
```

Alternatively, while developing and debugging, one can start Pipy with a builtin web UI:

```sh
$ pipy tutorial/01-hello/hello.js --admin-port=6060
```

### Show Command-Line Options

```sh
$ pipy --help
```

### List Builtin Filters and Their Parameters
Open the browser of your choice, point it to http://localhost:6060. You will now see the Admin UI where you can start exploring the documentation and playing around with the tutorial codebases. 
You'll find builtin filters and help information in `http://localhost:6060/docs/en/reference/Configuration`.
